Case Study: Russia-Ukraine War

The purpose of this report is to explain how the current social class used bonds of society to counter the Russia-Ukraine war.  The conflict has deep rooted history, but in February 24, 2022 Russia invaded Ukraine.  Russia’s stated goal was the ‘demilitarization and denazification’ of Ukraine, however their actual goal was to claim control of as much of Ukraine as possible including the Donbas region.  Russia has their own interest in control territory that Ukraine holds.  From the start, there was international condemnation and resistance from Ukraine.  The number of soldiers and civilians from both sides that were killed or injured remain unclear but estimates range from tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands.
I want to describe the social class between Ukraine and Russia.  This is the same type of social class I am trying to develop with the use of Icebreakers.  Ukraine used to be a part of Russia so despite their differences, they already had strong bonds.  They gained independence in 1990 around the time the Soviet Union fell.  There has been about 30 years of socializing as two independent states, with 20 years worth of social media use.  This created a class of people who recognized the humanity in each other.
Let’s talk about the results of this socialization over the course of 30 years.  There were early protests and riots by Russian citizens as well as sabotage of equipment by Russian soldiers.  How did the Russian soldiers feel about the war? There were early reports of demoralized soldiers angered at being ‘duped’ into war.  I point out this power of the social class in my report on politics.  I show that there is a critical number of people between two countries that need to socialize with each other in order to stop war.  This critical number was not met in the Russia-Ukraine war, however their impact was felt and the peaceful voice was heard.
In another report, I talk about standard conversation wells that evolve in conflict areas.  Let’s go over the conversation well that evolved in the Russia-Ukraine war.  Each side had standard statements.  Russia’s included regular threats and demands to Ukraine and the West.  The West had sanctions and reprimands of Russia’s actions.  They traded the same type’s of statements for the past 7 months.  As I point out in my report, this only leads to escalation, very fast.  We got to a point where Russia was literally threatening to drop a nuclear weapon.  This is the standard course of action that conversations in conflict areas go.  You see it between Taiwan and China, Israel and Palestine, India and Pakistan over Kashmir, and everywhere else there is conflict. 
These concepts are universal.  All 19,110 country pairs have the same forces opposing each other.  The socialized groups recognize brotherhood and see more ways towards peaceful resolution.  The world has naturally moved toward socializing with each other.  Social media helps, albeit only reduced the communication barrier by 10% and globalization helps but it takes time.  Icebreakers reduces the amount of time because the interactions are guided and quick.  
In conclusion, we need people to engage with other.  Each country pair needs to have the social class be above the critical number to avert war.  How will we get there?  I propose the mass use of Icebreakers.  Icebreakers reduces the communication barrier by 90% and allows people to get to the point of what separates and what bonds us fast.  Popularization of Icebreakers and consistent use by you will catalyze world peace.
