Comparison of World Peace Efforts

The purpose of this article is to compare the efforts of other non-profit organizations whose efforts concert around world peace to the World Peace Catalyst Fund’s effort for world peace.  I want to clearly show that the World Peace Catalyst Fund is the strongest force for world peace and I want to urge you to download our application, Icebreakers, and follow our easy call to action to push for world peace.
Charity Navigator is a non-profit evaluation tool that provides a rating and score based on impacts/results, finance & accountability, leadership & adaptability, and culture & community.  I did a search on Charity Navigator for world peace organizations.  The results came back with 110 hits, only 12 of which had a website.  9 of the 12 had to do with educating people on how they can work together peacefully and empowering them with tools of leadership to help see themselves and their communities to peaceful solutions.  3 of the 12 promoted peace by helping impoverished and less fortunate people.
Let’s get into these organizations a bit more.  How far do you think their reach is and how effective could they be over a lifetime?  For the charities that deal with educating people, let’s say they each non-profit graduates a class size of about 500 each year.  I think that is an upper limit, and that adds to a total of about 4,500 graduates per year.  Over a life time (~50 years), that is a total of 225,000 graduates.  
What can these graduates do?  Let’s say these graduates are leaders in their communities.  Let’s say that they each impact about 1,000 people in their lifetimes.  This impact can range from great to small.  Great meaning, they can change a person’s life and small meaning they can alter the course of a single interaction.  If each of the 225,000 graduates’ impact 1,000 people in their lifetimes, they will have impacted 225 million people over the span of 50 years.  
While that is a lot of people, remember there are about 8 billion people on earth so 225 million people only accounts for about 3% of the earth’s population receiving any benefit from the training.  This goes without taking into account that most people taking the courses are probably from diverse areas and are probably in already peaceful nations meaning their impact is already targeted towards places that are for the most part already peaceful.  They take the training to help aid them in coming up with peaceful solutions when conflict arises.  I mean to say, that 3% is on the high end, the actual number of people they help will probably be much lower.
I think it’s safe to say that the affect from the organizations that educate people, while impactful and worthwhile, is relatively small.  You may say that there are 98 other charities on charity navigator, however those organizations may not even be organized enough yet to make an impact.  Even if they are organized, how many people total get educated in the ways of peace?  Furthermore, reflect on the fact that the people going for these classes are leaders who pay for them.  They have very little to do for the everyday man.
Consider the other type of world peace charity listed o Charity Navigator, the ones dealing with helping impoverished people.  How many people do these charities reach?  I think the number at highest would be in the millions, but is more likely on the order of tens of thousands of people.  Recall that a charity would have to raise enough money to hep said people improve their wellbeing and that said people would have to qualify for the charity.  The scale of this is much smaller than the groups educating people.  
Now let’s take another a look at another non-profit evaluation tool called causeIQ.  causeIQ collects data on non-profit and organizes it into a neat profile for people seeking to learn more about specific non-profits.  There are some 1400 non-profits listed as international peace and security organizations.  I ranked them by gross revenue and took their description.  I figured, the organizations with the most revenue make the biggest impact, so this is what I am comparing to.
The top 10 (roughly… I skipped over a few organizations) take in revenue ranging from 243 million to 43 million per year.  Their activities to promote world peace range include improving health, protecting democratic systems and values, and research into peaceful pathways.  
3 of the organizations deal with health.  The World Health Organization lists describes health and peace as interrelated.  They say ‘…lack of access to health and basic social services can lead to feelings of exclusion, which are in themselves a major driver of conflict and violence.  Delivering health care can help to prevent this vicious circle...’  My analysis is that while inequitable access can be a key trigger or driver of conflict, it is indirect and serves a tangent to world peace.  Let’s put the number of people reached by these health organizations somewhere in the hundreds of millions.  While great, it’s still a small percentage of the total population on Earth. Furthermore, I would say that while health efforts are substantial, millions of people receive benefits from these organizations, however conflict can and will still exist.  
3 of the organizations deal with protecting democratic systems and values.  An example would be the Carter Foundation, which is one of the biggest organizations that pushes for this.  They mean that they think a democratic process and freedom is a vital part for peace.  They help countries maintain the integrity of elections and preserve the democratic system and values that promote freedom and equality.  This is another significant but small portion of the earth’s population.  I would estimate that this also helps hundreds of millions of people.  However, I would also say that this does not work to eradicate violence and conflict.  Violence and conflict can exist among democratic countries and within democratic countries.  This is another side tangent to the main world peace effort.  While important, it does not address the main problem directly.
4 of the organizations deal with actively researching into conflict to provide fresh new ideas to policy and provide guidance to government on how to deal with conflict.  I would say this also affects hundreds of millions of people and potentially billions of people because the research goes directly to government policy which all peoples are subject to.  However, the strength of the policy changes addressed by research may not be that great, as conflict still exists.  Change in area of policy also happens slowly over time.  This research, requires great time and energy for small changes.  So, while this affects a great number of people and it is a direct effect on conflict and peace, the force and impact behind it is small because of how long it takes for research ideas to take shape and effect.
The last search I did on world peace non-profits was a google search.  There are various pages that list out the top best non-profits advocating for world peace.  I picked one of these pages and read about the various organizations on them.  Their activities to promote world peace range from education, helping impoverished and needy communities, research and policy making.  I have covered how effective and impactful organizations carrying efforts of the such are.  To re-iterate, I think these organizations are worthwhile and impactful, however I will show that the World Peace Catalyst Fund is the strongest force for world peace and has the potential to create a long-lasting peace on Earth within a few short decades.
So, what does the World Peace Catalyst Fund bring to the table and why is it the strongest force for world peace.  The answer to this question is two-fold.  The first part to this answer deals with the mobile application that has been placed under the ownership of the World Peace Catalyst Fund.  The second part deals with how readily available the application is to use – anyone with digital access can use the application.
The application reduces 87% of communication barrier between 2 strangers. Compare this with current social media which reduced the communication barrier between 2 strangers by 9%.  It is the easiest way to communicate with a stranger and I show this in another article titled ‘Barriers To Communication.  You should read it.  The other thing about the mobile application is that it has the power to strike a deep, relevant and moving conversation between 2 strangers.  I show this in another article title ‘The deal with images’.  Read both articles, they help complete the understanding of the world peace argument.
The application is built for androids and is available on google play store – search Icebreakers by the World Peace Catalyst Fund – it’s an orange circle with an ice cube in the middle.  The application is readily available and is free.  Not only that, it is intuitive and easy to use.  It relies on communication through images, semiotics and words which everyone has been keyed into since birth.  How much of the world has digital access?  The vast majority of the world, even the developing world has digital access. This ease of access, means that everyone can start a conversation with a complete strange and push for world peace.
So, the application makes it easier to communicate with a stranger and it is readily available to use by anyone with digital access.  Couple this with the fact that the conversations can be deep and relevant.  If we specifically ask each other cross cultural questions designed to reveal what bonds and what separates us, we can easily start having conversations over the latent bonds of society. Now think about this, if all 8 billion of us had 1 conversation with a stranger from a different country each day, how many of those conversations will reveal these latent bonds of society?  Even if it is a small percentage, a small percentage of 8 billion is a lot.  It may be that more would be revealed in that single day than what has been understood between us over thousands of years.  Do you see why this is the strongest force?
What is a latent bond of society?  It is the wording, thoughts and concepts that which separates and bind us.  The World Peace Catalyst Fund believes that if politicians are equipped with knowledge of what pushes us to fight amongst each other and what causes us to bond with each other, more policies which result in peaceful relations can be crafted.  This is what current educational and research non-profit organizations dealing with world peace provide.  I go into this in a separate article titled ‘Political Dynamics.  This is another key part in understanding the World Peace Catalyst Fund’s argument to world peace.
To recap, the impact of the other non-profit organizations is limited in scope and effect.  In contrast the World Peace Catalyst Fund’s call to action is readily available to everyone and can make impacts near instantly.  It empowers the everyday man with the power to push for world peace.  Each conversation is a brick in the house of world peace.

Summary of other Non-Profit organizations dealing with world peace:

Charity Navigator
Christians for world peace – Promote peace through teaching of Jesus Christ.  Primary purpose is missions and evangelism of the Gospel of Jesus.
World Peace Game Foundation – Spread understanding of interconnectedness of the world and how we can work together peacefully through a game for kids.
Artists for World Peace Inc. – Artists and activists who promote peace by feeding, housing, educating and providing healthcare to those in need, lifting communities to a place of hope.
Justin Carr Wants World Peace – promote and support world peace through education, mentorship, scholarship and heart health.
International Association for World Peace – provide tools for building individual and world peace.  Teach classes to further world peace one person at a time.
World Peace Through Technology – educational non-profit dedicated to inspiring and educating people about peace.  By raising awareness and knowledge of each other they are promoting global harmony and peace.
Womens Federation for World Peace Inc. – Empowering and equipping women to discover their innate feminine value as leaders of the heart and realize an environment for lasting peace in their families and communities.
Womens Federation for World Peace International Inc. – Empowering women as peacebuilders and leaders in the family to transform the community, nation and world.  Through education, advocacy, partnership, reconciliation and humanitarian service, WFWPI aims to create an environment of peace and well-being for future generations and people of all races, cultures and religious creeds.
North American Sakya World Peace Monlam Foundation Inc. – Some sort of Tibetan Monks for world peace prayer group.
Institute of Interfaith dialog for the World Peace Inc.  – To promote mutual understanding, respect and cooperation among people of diverse faiths and cultures by creating opportunities for direct communication and meaningful shared experiences as well as to organize academic and grass roots programs through cultural trips, conferences, panels and research.
Make the World a Better Place Foundation Inc. – Aid and assist social service organizations to enhance, educate and enrich the lives of underprivileged children and their families
IMA World Health – Our mission is to build healthier communities by collaborating with key partners to serve vulnerable people.  Christian church group.

CauseIQ 
Program for appropriate technology in Health (PATH) – Provide malaria and HIV medical services all over the world.  Described as a world peace or international security organization. 294 mm in revenue.
National Endowment for Democracy – Advancing Democracy in the world by providing grants to programs that nourish a strong democratic civic culture.  197 mm in revenue
The Carter Center – Strengthen freedom and democracy in nations worldwide, securing for the people the political and civil rights that are the foundation of just and peaceful societies. 130 mm in revenue
National Democratic Institute for International Affairs – Working to support and strengthen democratic institutions worldwide through citizen participation, openness and accountability in government. 128 mm in revenue
United Nations Foundation – Focus’s on improving health, improving lives of women and population and has a climate change, energy & sustainable development initiative.  119mm in revenue
The Asia Foundation – improves lives, expands opportunities and helps societies flourish across a dynamic and developing Asia.  They work with innovative leaders and communities to build effective institutions and advance pathbreaking reforms.  104 mm in revenue
The Atlantic Council.  – 2 program areas dealing with world peace.  Sowcroft center for strategy and security – research on NATO and the transatlantic security partnership issues, while also studying ‘over the horizon’ regional and functional security challenges to the United States, its allies and partners.  Adrienne Arsht-Rockefeller foundation resilience center – formed to reach 1 billion people with resilience solutions to climate change, migration, and security challenges. 68 mm in revenue
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace – To advance peace through analysis and development of fresh policy ideas and direct engagement and collaboration with decisionmakers in government, business, and civil society. 57 mm in revenue
United States Association for United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees – provides support for the humanitarian work of the United Nations High Commissioner for refugees through fundraising and education. 55 mm in revenue
Innovations for Poverty Action – build rigorous evidence on effective ways to build peace and stability in conflict and crisis-affected contexts.  43 mm in revenue



Google search
Mercy corps – Reducing conflict through education and training.   They operate in over 40 countries, offering peace solutions and conflict resolution.  They strive to promote civic engagement by empowering youth in their communities so that they can be activists for peace.  They also offer aid to vulnerable communities impacted by conflict, instability, and insecurity.
Kids for Peace – Organizes and hosts community projects and programs that promote peace, positive change and cross-cultural friendships.  They achieve this through their kindness challenges and peace pledges, while working in their communities to help others.  They empower kids to create peace through hands-on service, global friendships and thoughtful acts of kindness.
The peace development fund – works to build peace by promoting cohesion between people and their communities.  They issue grants to grassroots organizations and encourage them to represent the socio-economic needs of their communities to achieve long-term peace.
Peace Brigades – Delivers capacity-building tools and resources to ensure conflicts are resolved in a peaceful, non-violent manner.  They work to protect vulnerable communities in their target countries and support local human rights defenders.  They also advocate for the protection of human rights defenders working in conflict zones or unstable conditions.
Saferworld – Implements programming to safeguard people affected by conflict.  They strive to empower vulnerable communities to be forces of change and sustain peace.  In addition, they work to increase national and international security through research and policy reforms, and advocate for vulnerable communities directly impacted by conflict.
Peace Direct – Strives to improve the livelihoods and wellbeing of people living in conflict zones.  They achieve this by tackling forms of discrimination and violence, and advocating justice for victims of violence.  They implement peacebuilding initiatives and carry out groundbreaking research to combat violence.  They also track peacebuilding projects in conflict zones to monitor their progress.
Seeds of Peace – advocates for peace by training youth from conflict-affected countries and empowering them to be changed for good.  They assist educators from various backgrounds with peacebuilding tools and resources, and support them in their community efforts to implement peace, security and understanding.
CARE International – provide educational, social and economic empowerment programs to communities to reduce violence, especially gender-based violence.  They deliver emergency relief to vulnerable people, such as women and children, and those living in rural areas.  They also advocate for policies that incorporate the needs of the countries marginalized groups.
International Alert – Aims to implement sustainable peace by working in conflict areas and creating long-term solutions.  They advocate for policies that promote the rights of vulnerable people, including women and children.  They work in fragile communities to reduce threats of violence and strive for inclusive peace, and combat the root causes of conflict. 

