Conversation Wells

The purpose of this report is to show the narrow focus of current political rhetoric when countries start to engage in hostile relations and the one-way direction the conversation is structured.  Examples of countries engaging in hostile relations include Russia-Ukraine, Taiwan-China, Israel-Palestine, Armenia-Azerbaijan, etc.  There is a general form of the conversation formed between any two hostilities.  I want to show that knowledge of social bonds of society allows us to break this cycle.
When two countries start to engage in hostile relations, there is a standard form of conversation and a quick escalation of conversation.  The standard form of conversation goes something like this:  One country wants something from the other, usually land, and the other country resists.  There is a one-way directive of the conversation and that is war or the escalation of using unconventional weapons.  This is a conversation well. I give specific details in the case study on Russia-Ukraine.
The reason why there is a standard structure is because of mob mentality.  Politicians successfully use their rhetoric to prep the masses.  Once a mass group of people start to think the same, it becomes mob mentality which is hard to stop.  War is perforce and supported through mob mentality.  This is the way mobs go unless they have pathways to think outside of prevalent political rhetoric.  These pathways are the social bonds of society known by the public.
If two countries socialized with each other enough, then they know enough about what they like and what they don’t like and know how to engage peacefully with each other.  This knowledge is called the social bonds of society.  This knowledge does not guarantee aversion of war, but it provides counter thoughts and arguments to hostile political rhetoric politicians try and push forth.  The way it would manifest in reality is that the countries could not fight each other because they were so many people that were friends with each other. 
This is social vulcanization.  It is similar to vulcanization procedure used to produce rubber tires.  If you are unfamiliar, vulcanization is the process of adding sulfur to the rubber mixture which causes cross-linking and gives rubber the consistency and the ductility it has as we know it.  If enough people from two countries were friends with each other, they could not go to war with each other.  There would be to many social cross-links which results in a ‘bricking’.  Politicians could not successfully get their people to engage in warfare because of the social consistency. 
This goes back to the battle of good vs evil.  People can choose which side they want to be on, whether it be pro-war or pro-peace.  The knowledge of the social bonds of society would need to be held and enacted by the good people such that it becomes the dominant force and war is averted.  This in the natural law of bigger people playing law keepers.  This is how war is averted.  When there is a critical number of good people enacting the social bonds of society such that two countries cannot engage in warfare because they are friends with each other.
In conclusion, there is a standard structure of conversation between two hostile nations that has a one-way directive towards violence.  This standard structure, I dub a conversation well as it is a deep hole.  Political use of mob mentality makes it easy to start wars.  Knowledge of the social bonds of society allow the masses to establish pathways out of mob mentality which bricks a politician’s effort to start war.  Evidence of this is seen in the protests and sabotage done by Russian soldiers in the Russia-Ukraine war. 
