Current Politics/Future Politics

The purpose of this report is to compare/contrast the current mechanism of politicks with the potential future mechanism of politicks with knowledge revealed from Icebreakers.  This point is important to understand for those who want power.
The current political mechanism can be described as follows.  Politicians need to know about the people they preside over, they need money and they need to make themselves known.  They gain power by being elected because they appeal to the people based off their stance on policies.  What they say and what they market is based off of what they know of the people.  This knowledge takes a lifetime to learn.  A lot of what has become common knowledge has taken thousands of years to understand.  These are the bonds of society.  Only some of this knowledge is passed from generation to generation and it is further restricted because not everyone has the resources to gain it.
The new political mechanism whose impetus will be the newly formed body of knowledge gained from your use of Icebreakers can be described as follows.  The ‘bonds of society’ that we previously noted take generations to learn can be ‘mined’ daily on Icebreakers and can be made public for everyone to know and understand.  Politicians & the public will have a common body of knowledge to apply to rule lands, this will be the ‘bonds of society’.  
This can lead to the proliferation of peaceful integration programs and trade.  Politicians know what to say to keep people happy and not fighting.  When a politician is out of line, for example by using what we know will cause us to fight to spur conflict, it will be easy to report and publicize the wrong doing.  Since the public knows the same body of knowledge, the intention of the politician becomes clear and the politician becomes less favorable and loses power. Politicians currently can use the bonds of society to hold power with disregard to who is benefitted and harmed because there is no checks and balances.  With the public holding the same body of knowledge as the politicians, it becomes harder for politicians to make unfair programs because public leaders can now act as the checks and balance.  
I would also like to point out the power that the social class holds.  The social class is the new class of people that arrived at the advent of social media and compromises the class of people that socialize heavily.  This class is growing everyday and crosses all other classes.  One of the characteristics of the social class is that they prefer socializing to war and conflict.  You will find these people everywhere (civilian and military population) and social media has made them more powerful.  The social class can stop wars immediately and can change political leadership immediately when successfully prompted because they are so mixed and can exert an influence that just changes the course of direction immediately.  
A clear example of their power is in the Russia/Ukraine war of 2022.  Since the fall of the USSR and the rise of social media, many Ukraine’s and Russians had socialized together and formed strong bonds.  These bonds were seen in the resistance to the war from the Russian civilians and soldiers through sabotage and protest.  This was from the social class of people that knew war was not right.  While this did not ultimately stop the war, it illustrates the point that the newly formed social class has a power in stopping war.  
One can theorize that with a critical number of people who have socialized with each other, this class of people can stop wars immediately.  That is to say that if the right amount of people know and enact the bonds of society, then the state of affairs is kept peaceful.  Russia and Ukraine did not have the critical number of people who had socialized with each other, but none-the-less, the number of people that did socialize made their voice heard and their impact can be seen.
In conclusion, what I am trying to illustrate is that with the proliferation of Icebreakers, there will be a newly formed body of knowledge, ‘The Bonds of Society’, that the public and individual leaders can use to keep the peace.  The concept applies to every region on earth.  It allows the public to dynamically exert influence on politicians and allows a social class of people to keep the state of affairs peaceful even when there is mal-influence by politicians. 
