Final States

The purpose of this report is to propose a way forward to governance of peaceful world society.  I suggest a 1-country solution with all current countries becoming states.  Each state would then rule according to their own likening (Communism/Capitalism).  The governing principle that I am applying is that things tend to move towards unity.
First, let me point out that the largest multi-national political block is the United Nations.  The United Nations was created soon after World War 2 to maintain international peace and security and develop friendly relations among nations.  Countries of all likes (Communist/Capitalist) meet and discuss foreign affairs and political rulings.  I just want to note that this looks like a set up for a bigger world establishment that contains a governing body. 
The next thing I want to point out is that the final state of communism is theoretically capitalism.  While there were early feuds between capitalistic and communist states (cold war), it looks like we are in the final stages of communism.  A lot of communist countries seem to have adopted many capitalistic characteristics (Russia/China).  Communism isn’t so much of a problem now adays for the west, except for their civil rights issues and treatment of their civilians.
The western democracy model, like the United States, seems to work and can be adaptable and replicable by most countries. Applying the model to the UN, what if the UN becomes a world congress, where we have senators and a house of representatives.  Each country becomes a state in this system and gets to rule their land as they wish (communist/capitalist).  
In conclusion, while there is a natural progression towards peace, we must consider a governing system that the world can use to work together in.  My 1-country solution may be a natural end-results and the way we are gravitating.  It will not be without problems, but it creates a unified whole which makes wars harder to fight. This is just a proposed ideal solution, who knows what the future will hold. This would be a quasi-democratic state.  

