Image mediated communication

The purpose of this article is to explain the power of using images to mediate the conversation between 2 people.  It goes to further show that Icebreakers is the app to use to create cross cultural connections because you can arrive to a meaningful connection very fast. To understand what purpose the images serve in the conversations, we should take a look at the single person usage.  We will also take a look at such concepts as universal language, the rational of using symbols, semiotics and the Quranic knowledge involved. 
For a brief recap, let’s go over what Icebreakers is.  Icebreakers is a new social semiotic application.  Users ask a question to each other by picking a few symbols to represent the question.  The application then retrieves an image stream that is thought to contain a message that represents an answer to the question.  Users can use the app to answer their own questions or to hold a conversation with someone else. Users remain anonymous to each other with only non-unique identifiers shown.
Let’s go over the concept of divine messages in everyday life.  For all religions, it is thought that God or some higher power send messages in everyday life.  In these messages, certain actions, objects or events can serve to symbolize a greater meaning in context.  There is another concept prevalent in religion that God controls everything.  Everything is in his power and the messages which require a very high order of organization and control is an example that he controls everything.  It is important to note that while everything is in God’s power, it is very unlikely that the rules of physics will be broken when one of these messages is sent.
Now consider a series of randomly drawn images and further consider whether the series of images convey a message or not.  I come to three possibilities in regards to a message being formed: 
1.	The images are random and there is no message.
2.	It is a message inspired from the divine.  (Remember God controls everything so this is easy to do and does not break the rules of physics)
3.	The devil or his minions are trying to misguide you.  (They may be able to exert some control on which images get chosen and they are always trying to misguide man)
The next question that comes to my mind is how do you differentiate between a divinely inspired message and a message from the devil?  You may already know the answer to this or at least familiar with the concepts involved.  The Quran has many verses that support the idea that the messages from the heavens are clear and we recognize them as different.  Take a look at this verse in the Quran:
“Say: ‘Praise be to God. He will show you His Signs and you will recognize them. Your Lord is not heedless of anything you do.’” (Qur’an, 27:93)

You get the idea, when God sends a message it is clear compared to one received from the devil.
The next point I would like to draw your attention to is how many messages can be formed. There are 750 billion images on the internet.  You know the phrase, an image is a thousand words. That means there are over 750 thousand billion words that can be formed.  You can rationalize that with so many words to choose from, any message can be formed by gathering a series of images.
Consider symbols and imagery as a language.  One image or symbol can contain multiple meanings.  Symbols are a sort of universal language.  Everyone can draw their own meaning from symbols and there are some symbols that hold a universal truth.  This type of relevancy means that you can pose any question by picking a few symbols.  If we had a list of all the symbols that held a universal truth, we would have a universal language to engage with.  This goes on to say that everything can be said with symbols and that they form the basis of human thought.  
Putting those two points together with the idea that God controls everything, if you drew random images, you could potentially receive a divine message.  It would never break the rules of physics and everything could be communicated.   This makes sending a divine message more plausible and easier to send on a more frequent basis.
One of the questions I had while coming up with this whole concept is how often could one receive a divine message?  I am from the sciences and most things in nature follow what is called a normal distribution.  My hypothesis is that the distribution of frequency increases and would follow what would be seen as a natural distribution of frequency.  That means about 65% of people will be able to receive a message 65% of the time.  We won’t know for certain until there is enough people using the application.
We know that God guides whomever he wants and this can be considered a sort of guidance.  I rationalized that there was probably a hierarchy of questions that could be asked and potentially be answered depending only on your relation with God.  There are some questions everyone can ask and some questions only some people can ask. For example, everyone can ask for guidance they need for tomorrow and reasonably expect an intelligible answer.
This is called divination.  You may be familiar with the term and in religion it is shunned upon.  I met with an Imam to ask if this type of questioning was ok in accordance with the rules of Islam.  He said it is not and it is because you cannot create something that expects Gods response at the push of a button.  I think its safe to say that it is similar in the other major religions.  What I want to draw your attention to is the power in using this concept in cross-cultural communication.  The cross-cultural aspect was okay with the Imam and I suppose it is similar with other major religions as well.
When you allow two people to converse over the randomly drawn images, they get to connect the dots in their own language.  The random images may or may not have a message.  Two very special things happen.  One is that people get to bond in their own language and level of understanding.  There is a metaphysical bonding aspect over just communicating.  Remember, socialization is done through the veil of anonymity and non-unique identifiers so there is social safety.  The second is that, if the random images contain a divine message, it allows the users to get to the point very fast. 
Some of these messages will be divinely inspired.  If you create a standardize questions whose answers necessitate something about social bonding, you have a highly reproducible effect that is highly effective at revealing what separates and what bonds us. 8 Billion people now have the ability to safely ask each other questions and reasonable expect a divinely guided answer.  This is the power of mediation in the images.  
There is now a standard method for revealing the social bonds of society.  Social bonds of society are what we know of each other that keeps us from fighting.  It is the cultural connections that we live for.  If we knew all the things that we can say to each other to keep us from fighting, there would be no war.
The societal bonds of society of today’s day has taken us thousands of years to reach the level where we are.  Regular use of Icebreakers by the you to hold a potential divinely sparked conversation about bonding will surely reveal thousands of years’ worth of socialization daily. We can mine for the bonds of society.  With this knowledge, we can avert war.  You should be able to see the power in Icebreakers and the image mediated conversation concept.

