Mass Systemic Questioning

The purpose of this report is to illustrate the affect that mass systemic questioning can have on mining the bonds of society.  I would also like to identify drivers of use and feasibility of popularity as well show how we can transcend levels of understanding.  I urge you to use Icebreakers daily and to become a voice for the proliferation of Icebreakers.
My first point is that we can formulate questions that produce a specific type of answer.  The focus of the answers of our interest is the bonds of society.  Examples of such questions that could produce bonds of society include:
1.	Describe how a holiday is celebrated?
2.	What are typical foods served in the culture?
3.	How is divine power viewed in relation to human effort?
We can ask questions like this systemically.  By systemic, I mean that you can ask one of these questions to a different person each day.  This can be done over the span of your life time without repetition. With systemic cross-cultural questioning like this, we can hone in on the bonds of society.  Some of the answers will be divinely inspired, as we show in our Image Mediated Communication Report.
What happens when the everyone stars doing this?  I look and see that common themes amongst groups of people will emerge.  For example, if thousands of Afghani and American citizens ask the same question, they may end up with the same answer.  This answer becomes a bond of society that politicians can use.  What happens if everyone starts using this on a mass scale daily?  We start to ‘mine’ for the bonds of society and they become revealed to us daily.
I next want to point out that sometimes you need to sit with what you know before something new opens up.  This is the natural revelation process.  The bonds of society that we know today, takes generations of socialization to reveal themselves and even longer for us to understand how to use them.  With mass systemic questioning as I am proposing, years of understanding can take place in a single day.
Why should you use Icebreakers?  Well, besides world peace being the natural outcome of socialization like this, take a look at this verse from the Quran:
‘Human beings, we created you all from a male and a female, and made you into nations and tribes so that you may know one another.  Verily the noblest of you in the sight of Allah is the most God-fearing of you.  Surely Allah is All-Knowing, All-Aware.’ (Quran 49:13)
That little snippet, ‘made you into nations and tribes so that you may know one another’, this sounds like this is what God wants us to do.  Who wants to get closer to him?  When I think about this verse, it makes it seem like socializing in the way I am proposing with Icebreakers, is work God has charged us with.  I think your use of this app daily will bring you closer to him as you are fulfilling his charge.  I already show peace is the natural outcome from a long time based on the math of statistics.   This thing is weird but will be effective.  How popular can this thing become?  Well, with your use, it may be the #1 social media app of all time. 
Lastly, I would like to point out that any engagement of Icebreakers only pushes the world in one direction, towards World Peace.  There are 3 possible interactions when you use Icebreakers as a way to connect with other people.
1.	You hate the other person’s gut and what they say.
2.	There is no connection and there is no hate (neutral interaction).
3.	You instantly connect with the other person and want to go into a deeper relationship with them.
This is what I come up with and I want to point out that each happenstance is safe and only pushes towards world peace.  In the first instance, if you hate each other, no harm can come.  The socialization is done anonymously so the other person does not know enough about you to harm you.  You simply move on to the next person.  In addition, politicians still need to know what separates us so this knowledge is useful.  In the second instance, the knowledge may not be useful, however no harm again, and you move on to the next person again. In the third instance, the knowledge of what bonds us is useful to politicians and you know the other person does not want to harm you.  You can trade contact information with the other person and move on to other social media for deeper connections.  In all three instances, the interaction is fast and direct.  These are the only things that can happen from using Icebreakers.  You have nothing to lose.
In conclusion, mass systemic use of Icebreakers results in a reproducible targeted answering affect which can be dubbed as social mining.  It can be seen as a divine charge to learn as much as we can about each other and Icebreakers is ideal for this as it is a safe and effective way to socialize.  This socialization on the mass scale can result in thousands of years’ worth of understanding revealed in weeks to months.  Please download and use Icebreakers.  Please look into what you have just read with someone to see if it is the truth as I claim it to be.  You have the power to change the future of the world.
 

