Overview

The purpose of this report is to give a high-level introduction into the social mechanism that guarantees world peace.  I have created 10 reports that give in depth answers on the who, what, when, where, why and how of the social mechanism.  The social mechanism involves the use of Icebreakers as a cross-cultural communication device.
This is the basic argument for World Peace.  By ‘connect the dots’ and tying all the reports together, you will see how World Peace can be achieved.  The argument is post modern and draws from religious concepts that everyone can appreciate and should agree with.  For those familiar with argument formulation, the axioms are drawn from the Quran, the only book that has never changed, and is without fallacious reasoning as I know it.
To answer the question ‘Why use Icebreakers?’, I have created four reports. To answer the question ‘What is Icebreakers?’, I have created a story-board page that gives a step-by-step example guide to the mechanism I am describing.  To answer the question ‘How is the use of Icebreakers going to bring World Peace?’, I have created five reports.  The who, when and where is answered simply by you and anywhere at any time as Icebreakers is a mobile application that anyone with digital access can use to push for world peace.
Why use Icebreakers?
The first report is called ‘Image Mediated Conversations’ and it shows why Icebreakers can reveal the latent bonds of society.  It explains the design of Icebreakers and the purpose of the images in the conversation.  I use a verse from the Quran to clearly showcase the power randomly drawn images has.
The second report, ‘Statistical Argument for World Peace’ shows why World Peace is possible and shows why it is a reasonable expectation within our lifetimes.  It has been understood qualitatively that if we knew enough about each other, we would know what to do and say to avoid conflict.  I provide a quantitative analysis that draws on analogous arguments from the sciences to establish that World Peace is a viable reality and is the natural progression of the world.
The third report, ‘Barriers to Communication’ shows why Icebreakers is different than conventional social media.  It explains how the communication barrier is reduced by 90%, compared to the 10% by conventional social media.  It also shows that there is complete social safety when using Icebreakers.
The fourth report, ‘Power of Anonymity’ shows why Icebreakers uses anonymity in establishing initial connections.  It further explains the design and power of Icebreakers. It reiterates the aspect of social safety.

What is Icebreakers?
Icebreakers is a new semiotic social media application that reduces the communication barrier by 90% and is intelligently designed to reveal the latent bonds of society.  For these reasons, the World Peace Catalyst Fund is trying to popularize the use of Icebreakers as a social media application to make first contact with friends. Follow our storyboard, located at www.worldpeacecatalystfund.org/#/appdesign for a step-by-step guide to the mechanism.
How?
The first report, ‘Mass Systemic Questioning’ explains how the social mechanism, if performed by the masses, will uncover thousands of years of understanding daily through social mining with Icebreakers.  Albeit weird, it is safe and seems sure to guarantee results.  I use a verse from the Quran to show that there is work charged to us as humans to learn about each other and that the use of Icebreakers brings us closer to God as well as World Peace.
The second report, ‘Conversation Wells’, how the current progression of affairs between two hostile nations proceeds down a standard path towards violence.  It also shows how the social bonds of society, revealed through your use of Icebreakers, can be used to avert war.
The third report, ‘Current Politics/Future Politics’ shows how the current mechanism of politics works and offers an alternative future mechanism of politics with the knowledge gained from mass use of Icebreakers.  It further shows how wars can be stopped and explains the power of the people.
The fourth report ‘Case Study – Russia/Ukraine War’, shows how these concepts apply to real-life modern-day situation.  These concepts can be abstracted to any two-nation hostility (war) going on in the world.  The report gives a clear example of how the use of the social bonds of society between Russia and Ukraine created a force against the war.  You clearly see the potential of Icebreakers from this report.
The fifth report, ‘Final States’, shows how the world could look and would be governed in a final state of world peace.  I offer a way that the world could come together to one table and deal with their internal and foreign affairs with little disruption to their current mode of practice.  This is just one potential solution, but it gives a clear illustration of the way the world could work.
In conclusion, the social mechanism the World Peace Catalyst Fund is providing, allows anyone with digital access to push for world peace.  Each report goes into depth in one particular aspect, and you can connect the reports to draw the picture of World Peace.  Your use and proliferation of Icebreakers will bring peace rapidly.  Everyday, you should make an attempt to converse with someone from a different country and steadily build bricks of society.  Politicians can then architect the house of peace with the bricks you made.


