The Power of Anonymity in Cross-Cultural Conversations

The purpose of this article is to explain why Icebreakers uses anonymity and the power behind it in cross-cultural conversations.  I want to show what anonymity does for socialization, compare it to the current methods of socialization and show that all ways of conversation support world peace.
Icebreakers is a new semiotic social media app whose profile requirements are only non-unique identifiers.  Users of this application are kept anonymous and pick each other by searching for demographics such as language and country.  Users interact with each other by posing questions with symbols (as a universal language) to each other.  
The users then receive a stream of images which constitutes a message that they can both converse over.  I show in the report ‘Image Mediated Conversations’ that the image stream has a high likelihood of revealing the ‘keys of society’. 
I want to make the point that socializing anonymously over the internet allows you to preserve social currency.  Social currency is our status in society, it is what we have developed and are comfortable with.  It is hard earned and we want to keep our social currency stable and safe.  When you converse anonymously, there is no way to lose social status.  It allows us to talk with people we don’t normally interact with.  It also opens up what we can say to each other.
I also want to make the point that using non-unique demographic identifiers preserves social currency and provides a way to connect cross-culturally.  Non-Unique demographic identifiers provide a way to safely interact because nothing can be traced back to an individual.  At the same time, non-unique identifiers provide a sense of identity.  It gives a way for people to organize their social efforts and provides a way to clearly connect cross-cultural ideas.  
Contrast this with the current methods of social media like Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, Snap Chat and TikTok.  They all require some face or image-based profile and heavily publicizes your posts, comments and interactions.  Also consider the point that we only comment and interact with those posts that we have an interest in.  This is a limitation in the scope of things we interact with.  We won’t engage with certain people.  It is also easy for someone to retaliate against you if you post or comment something that they don’t like.  The current method, albeit popular is unsafe and isn’t conducive to everyone.
I would like to illustrate the safety in using anonymity and non-unique identifiers by highlighting all the ways a conversation can go in Icebreakers.  There are three ways a conversation can go in Icebreakers.  They can hit it off, connect instantly and become friends.  They can trade their contact information and move on to the next social media app.  The next way is that they find no connectors and remain neutral.  When this happens, you can just move on to the next person.  The last way is that the image stream produces some sort of angry exchange of words.  In this case, there is no way to find out who you are and the risk that the person will retaliate is negligible.  You simply move on to the next person.
In conclusion, anonymity and non-unique identifiers allow you to preserve social currency and allows you to engage with a more diverse range of people.  Icebreakers allows for heart-based communication.  You can find someone that you connect with at a heart-based level and then move on to the more familiar social media applications.
